WindowsPerf VS extension installation guide (#1327)
ArmDeveloperEcosystem/arm-learning-paths: content/install-guides/windows-perf-vs-extension.md

tool_install: true # Set to true to be listed in main selection page, else false
multi_install: FALSE # Set to true if first page of multi-page article, else false
multitool_install_part: false # Set to true if a sub-page of a multi-page article, else false
layout: installtoolsall # DO NOT MODIFY. Always true for tool install articles
---

## Introduction

**WindowsPerf** is a lightweight performance profiling tool inspired by Linux perf, specifically tailored for Windows on ARM. It leverages the ARM64 PMU (Performance Monitor Unit) and its hardware counters to offer precise profiling capabilities. Recognizing the complexities of command-line interaction, the WindowsPerf GUI project is a Visual Studio 2022 extension that was initiated to provide a more intuitive, integrated within the development environment (IDE) experience. This tool enables developers to interact with WindowsPerf, adjust settings, and visualize performance data seamlessly within the IDE.

## A Glimpse of the UI

The WindowsPerf GUI extension is composed of several key features, each designed to streamline the user experience:

![Sampling preview #center](../_images/wperf-vs-extension-sampling-preview.png)

> - **WindowsPerf Configuration**: Connect directly to `wperf.exe` for a seamless integration. Configuration is accessible via `Tools -> Options -> Windows Perf -> WindowsPerf Path`.

Reviewer: I think you want to add here header like 

``## Installation`

This section is just cramped below the UI Glimpse picture.

![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/37db2b48-ac0b-4652-8131-b14c659a8e60)

Reviewer: Hmmm, this is hard to understand. So this is the list of things it does?
Not sure if this is right way to do it, it's a bulletpoint list of things, I thought I should follow these.
Maybe it's better to just write a paragraph explaining these things?

- **LLVM** (Optional): You can install the LLVM toolchain by following this [guide](../llvm-woa).

{{% notice llvm-objdump %}}
The disassembly feature needs to have `llvm-objdump` available at `%PATH%` to work properly.
{{% /notice %}}

### Installation (Option 1)

To install WindowsPerf Visual Studio Extension you can do that from Visual Studio itself.

1. Open Visual Studio 2022
2. Go to `Extensions` menu
3. Select **Manage Extensions**
4. Click on the search bar ( or tap `Ctrl` + `L` ) and type `WindowsPerf`
5. Click on the install button and restart Visual Studio

![WindwosPerf install page #center](../_images/wperf-vs-extension-install-page.png)

### Installation (Option 2)

To install WindowsPerf Visual Studio Extension you can download the installation file directly from our [GitHub release page](https://github.com/arm-developer-tools/windowsperf-vs-extension/releases).

Unzip the downloaded file and double click on the `WindowsPerfGUI.vsix` file

{{% notice Note %}}
You need to make sure that any previous version of the extension is uninstalled and that Visual Studio is closed before installing the extension.
{{% /notice %}}

### Build from source

> For those preferring to build from the source, simply clone the repository and build the `WindowsPerfGUI` Project using the default configuration on Visual Studio. This alternative installation method offers flexibility and customization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For those preferring to build from the source, simply clone [the repository](https://github.com/arm-developer-tools/windowsperf-vs-extension) and build the `WindowsPerfGUI` solution using the default configuration on Visual Studio. This alternative installation method offers flexibility and customization.
```
